----------IndianExpress----------.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given an exclusive interview, his first after demonetisation, to India Today magazine. In the interview with Group Editorial Director of the magazine, Raj Chengappa, the prime minister dismissed all criticism and talked about the impact of demonetisation on Indian economy, government’s future action plan and how he sees Opposition’s protest against note ban.
Highlights of the interview.
Black money has all been forced out into the open, whomsoever it may belong to-whether it is corrupt politicians, bureaucrats, businessmen or professionals. Counterfeit notes, which our intelligence agencies had reported to be available in high volumes with our enemies, have been instantly neutralised. The media has extensively reported on districts famous as counterfeiting hubs being badly hit.
Regarding frequent modifications one must be able to distinguish between Niti and Ran niti. Our ran niti however needed to be different, aptly summarised by the age old saying tu daal daal main paat paat.
WATCH VIDEO | Government Drops Four-Year Jail Term For Holding Old Currency Notes.
Government Drops Four-Year Jail Term For Holding Old Currency Notes.
 
Regarding Manmohan Singh, it is interesting that the world’s monumental mismanagement comes from a leader who has been at the helm of India economic journey for the past 45 years. His reference to ‘organised loot’ was perhaps a reference to the unending string of scams under his leadership, from the coal scam to the 2G and CWG scam. Demonetisation on the other hand is the unprecedented step to confiscate the loot of the corrupt.
Demonetisation Deadline: Congress Attacks PM Modi: Find Out More.
 
The govt tried its best to keep the parliament functioning. I was keen to speak in both the houses. Yet, there was was a concerted attempt by the Congress to derail the functioning of the houses, rather than have a proper debate. While Opposition in Parliament is understandable, this is the first time this is being used to protect the dishonest and that to so openly.
When money returns to the bank, it loses its anonymity. Every rupee leaves a trail. This changes the game as black money that did not have an address till now has been tagged with one. We now know when was it, where and when. Holders of black money may hide behind the bank accounts of others, but unlike cash holdings, they can be traced. In this game of hide and seek they have a few days to hide, but the govt has the mechanism and will to seek them out. More interestingly the existence of such trails, the identification of one culprit invariably leads to the unearthing of even larger sources and schemes of corruption.
If you act with clarity and with the purest of motives, the results will be there for any to see. Whatever my critics may say, I seek no personal benefit from all this, only the greater good.
 Cash held by terrorists, Maoists and other extremists has also been neutralised. There has been a crippling impact on dangerous and highly damaging illegal activities, such as human trafficking and narcotics.
I pity a few of our opponents, especially the Congress leadership, for the desperation they have been exhibiting..Congress leaders are entirely pre-occupied with only one thing-elections.
There is nothing political in the demonetisation decision…it was a tough decision taken to clean up our economy and our society. If I were guided by short-term electoral politics, I would have never done so.
If one does an unbiased, objective evaluation of my government’s programmes and priorities over the past two and a half years, the one thing that will unambiguously emerge is the centrality of the poor, downtrodden and marginalised.
 The multiplier effect of introduction of money, which was till now uselessly hoarded and stocked away as cash, into the active economic system will give the economy further boost. Additional government revenue will be pushed into priority domains such as irrigation and rural housing, empowering the poor and needy.
We took the demonetisation decision not for some short term windfall gain, but for a long term structural transformation. Our objective was to clean up our economy and society of the menace of black money, purging the distrust, artificial pressures and other ills that came with it. The revenue collected will be used for the welfare of the poor, downtrodden and marginalised.
Earlier the income tax department used to shoot in the dark. Now, people have voluntarily come forward and deposited money in their banks. The aim is to ensure that the honest tax payer is not harassed of inconvenienced while the dishonest tax evade is efficiently caught and punished. Beyond this any erring officer or banker will be caught and punished. My government has zero tolerance for corruption.
Digital transaction should not be viewed only as a short-term substitute to help through the period of cash shortage. That is not my objective. Digital transaction deliver multiple benefits. They facilitate proper accounting and sizing of the formal economy. They provide greater ease and security in handling of money, especially for small businesses and ordinary people. They also deliver greater tax compliance ensuring the dishonest do not escape payment of their dues. Therefore, I see digital payment as method of cleaning the economy in the long run.
 It is imperative that we figure out decisive ways of routing out black money from politics. I have been regularly appealing for the same. I have asserted before the last parliament session itself that the need of the hour is to comprehensively relook and reform political funding. I have also repeatedly expressed concern about how our current system of multiple elections not only raises political expenditure, thereby hurting the economy, but also result in the nation perpetually remaining in the election mode, stalling governance.

----------firstpost----------.
 
The current political discourse in India sounds more and more like a WhatsApp joke that somebody recounted recently. It goes something like this:

A man claims on social media that the earth is flat and the sun revolves around it. To this someone provides data and evidence to prove beyond doubt that the Earth is round and revolves in its orbit. Guess what the proponent of the Earth-is-flat theory replies? He retorts: "We will discuss all that later. First tell me why your wife ran away with the neighbour?"

If you can't counter the facts, attack the face. That's Indian political discourse for you today. And its shining example was the response to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's speech in Parliament on the demonetisation experiment.

Singh's speech in Rajya Sabha was a metaphor of our times. As a newspaper said in a witty headline, Manmohan turns Modi, Modi turns Maunmohan!

Since he outlawed currency notes of higher denomination, Modi has not had a word to say on the people who are dying in queues for money. He has found time to laugh, cry and attend concerts. But, maun is the word in Parliament. And, Singh is roaring.

Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. AFPFormer Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. AFP
We can go on and on about the loot and plunder during UPA-II. For several years, the former prime minister indeed presided over what was a criminal manifestation of the parable of Ali Baba and Chaalis Chor. He did not speak when the country expected him to, he did not show a spine when the nation expected him to. All that is documented and perhaps been paid for by him.

But, if having skeletons in the closet were a disqualification in Indian politics, the Indian Parliament would have struggled to find even a dozen suitable candidates. Some may have been discarded for lack of personal integrity, some for financial mismanagement, some for not being able to control communal riots and incite communal frenzy.

In Indian politics, everyone who struts around as a saint has once been a sinner. So, Singh too has every right to talk about demonetisation. He is entitled to blasting the government for the mismanaged demonetisation experiment.

Are those 70 deaths — notice all victims are poor people struggling to withdraw their own money from cash-starved banks — because of some new strain of black death? The long queues outside banks and ATMs are not imaginary. The fact that the government couldn't even print Rs 2,000 notes of the right ATM size is not imaginary. That the government has had to tweak withdrawal rules every second day is not a canard.

Even the prime minister's promises carry no weight. On 8 November, he had told the nation the limit for cash exchange would be raised after 24 November. But, on Thursday, the government, instead of increasing the limit, banned it altogether.

If this is not mismanagement we are living in Robert Mugabe's Zimbabwe.

The former prime minister is right in pointing out that growth will suffer because of the hasty implementation of the decision. Several experts have argued that the economy will take a hit because of lack of capital, paralysis of unorganised sector and financial problems faced by farmers, labourers and traders. The estimates of GDP fall have been outright gloomy to moderate and severe.

This, as Ratan Tata pointed out, is a national calamity. In a statement released on Twitter, Tata suggested that the government consider special relief measures. "While Govt is doing its best to increase availability of new currency, it may be worthwhile to consider special relief measures similar to those employed at times of national calamities to serve poor for their daily needs and for enabling emergency medical treatment," he said. (What about Neera Radia, Mr Tata? No?)

Prime Minister Narendra Modi. AFPPrime Minister Narendra Modi. AFP
So far the government has come up with no data to support its experiment. The prime minister, instead of speaking like a statesman, has been busy laughing, crying, expressing fears to his life, quoting Bob Dylan, taking potshots at the opposition and posing hilarious questions on his App.

It doesn't convince us the earth is flat.

----------hindaily----------.

The Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kanpur addressed a well-attended people rally, Uttar Pradesh, as Congress vice-President Rahul Gandhi gets ready to address crowed in Janupur in a bid to translate the post note ban anger into votes, ahead of the upcoming assembly elections.
 
According to the report ahead of Modi’s scheduled rally, unidentified people in Sarvodaynagar area in the district burnt rally hoardings. Congress too produced demonstrations in Kanpur against PM Modi refusing the demonetization measure. The BJP workers demanded strict against those responsible for the ‘undemocratic’ and ‘shameful’ act.

In Kanpur, PM Modi will present a grip of Skill development initiatives focused on skill unemployment youth and also lay the foundation stone of Indian Institute of Skills in Kanpur.

Also Read: TMC MLA Vaishnavi Dalmiya Caught on Cam that Insulting National Anthem.
 
A senior official in the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship told that "Aside from propelling 31 Kaushal Kendras which will serve as skilling focuses and target predominantly unemployed youth for preparing purposes, the Prime Minister will likewise initiate a show named Kaushal Mahotsav".

The Official also added that "The PM Narendra Modi will also lay the foundation stone for the Indian Institute of Skills in Kanpur which will target on providing industrial training."

Through Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana one lakh youth is going to place because The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship is also set to enter into a strategic partnership with the leather and textiles industry in Kanpur.

The official said that the National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme will also be launched formally.

In every district of the Country, The Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras are state of the art Model Training Centres (MTCs) are going to establish through the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.

The model training centres focus imagine to make benchmark establishments that exhibit optimistic esteem for competency based aptitude improvement preparing.

----------EconomicTimes----------.

MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India raised the daily withdrawal limit at automated teller machines to Rs 10,000 per card and doubled that for current accounts to Rs 1 lakh per week, signaling that the post-demonetisation cash crunch is easing as currency supplies have risen over the past few weeks. 

While the overall cap of Rs 24,000 per week for savings accounts stays in place, even that could soon be raised to as much as Rs 40,000, according to bankers with knowledge of the matter. They added that a new Rs 1,000 note is also in the works. The changes were notified by the central bank in a circular on Monday. 

The central bank is said to be in discussion with banks on raising savings account withdrawal limits as the supply of new Rs 500 notes has improved in the past few weeks. The current daily limit on card withdrawals at ATMs is Rs 4,500. The weekly cap on current account withdrawals is Rs 50,000. 

"The weekly limit could be raised to Rs 36,000 or Rs 40,000 a week per (savings) account," said a banker who did not want to be named. Bankers said the relaxation is expected in phases as RBI moves toward restoring confidence among customers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 8 that Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes would cease to be legal tender at midnight, invalidating about 86% of notes in circulation. 

While RBI has issued new Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 notes, plans for a new Rs 1,000 note had previously been denied. The central bank is said to be working on security features for the new Rs 1,000 note, likely to be the same size as either the Rs 500 or the Rs 2,000 note so that banks don't have to tweak the ATM cassettes to dispense them, said the bankers cited above. The new notes are smaller than the ones they replaced, which meant the machines needed to be recalibrated to take them, exacerbating the cash squeeze. 

RBI did not respond to an email seeking comment. The central bank had initially imposed a weekly limit of Rs 20,000 for cash withdrawals by individuals, subsequently raised to Rs 24,000. Bankers said that with currency presses working around the clock, cash supplies have improved. While several ATMs in the national capital region seem to be constantly out of cash, bank branches are said to have enough currency to service customers at their counters.

6 shocking facts about indoor air pollution. Dr. Aeroguard. Let's reinvent preserving memories. Hewlett Packard Recommended By Colombia.

Almost Rs 14 lakh crore of the old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes has come back to banks in the form of deposits, a banker said. That's out of an estimated Rs 15.4 lakh crore of cancelled currency. As supplies have increased, panic has eased and people aren't holding onto cash, which has further eased the situation. 

"Our assessment is that of total notes demonetised, say 30% was sitting idle," said a banker. "Of the remaining 70%, we think 40% has already come into the system. So we assume the cash situation will get better by next month, provided people don't hoard cash." RBI has faced criticism over poor planning that led to cash shortages after demonetisation. 
